.\" Manpage for ramp
.\" Contact jlekas@andrew.cmu.edu or shamal@andrew.cmu.edu for issues or corrections
.TH Ramp 1 "20 May 2017" "version 1.0"
.SH NAME
Ramp
.SH DESCRIPTION
Ramp is a peer to peer application that allows users to chat, send files, and video chat with other active users through direct TCP connection.
.SH PLATFORMS
Currently Ramp has been tested on and used on OSX and Ubuntu environments.  
.SH INSTALLATION
Currently Ramp is only supported on Mac and Linux environments. Ramp requires that python2.7.13 be installed on the machine running and requires several other python modules to be installed on the computer. In the scipts folder, there is a file setup.sh that will install the necessary modules and versions so that Ramp will correctly operate. In order to run ramp, there is an executable, ramp.exe that will properly load the application. 
.SH OPTIONS
Ramp does not take any options
.SH HOW TO USE
In order to connect with another peer, type in the IP Address of the other user in the Connect to IP box on the top right of the application screen and then click connect. The Peer box will show you the users that you have connected with on this current session because the IP address of the user you connect with will change depending on their location and the device they are using. In order to make finding your IP Address easy, your IP Address will be displayed on the top left of the Application after the text 'MyIP: '. Once you are connected with another user, their IP address will pop up in the peer box and if there are issues connecting to this IP address, a message "Could not connect to: IP" will be displayed in the chat box. At this point you can chat, video chat, and share your files with other users on Ramp. To chat with a connected peer, type your message in the box to the left of the 'Send Chat' button and either hit enter or click on 'Send Chat'. The messages between you and the other user will be stored for the remainder of your current session. If you connect between different peers in the same session, your messages displayed in the chat bar will be specific to the user you are currently connected to. In order to share files, you would type in either a specific file you are searching for, or a key phrase in the 'Search for Friends' Files' box, select either 'Specific File' or 'General Search' and click 'Download Files'. This will download all of the files that meet the search requirements into your 'Downloads' folder in the directory you have downloaded Ramp in. When you would like other users to be able to download your files, place the files you would like to share with only your direct connections in your 'Private' folder and files that would be accessable to any user on Ramp in your 'Public' folder. This will allow other users to be able to download the files you have provided. In order to video chat with a connected peer, simply make sure that you are connected and click the Start Video Chat button. If both users have a connected camera, the video feed of the other user will be displayed in a new window that will pop up on your screen.
.SH DEVELOPMENT
The problem that we worked on was creating a peer to peer application that would allow for users to securely send data and easily communicate with each other. Each peer is both a server and a client where the user has the ability to send and receive data without the aid of a centralized server that would generally facilitate traffic between users. Sockets were used in order to accommodate the TCP network protocol to transfer data between peers. We used the TCP protocol because this allowed us to send and receieve data in packets allowing for the transfer of large amounts of data without losing or having our data changed. Sockets were used to set up connections between two peers based on the IP address given as an input and using port 1085 which is a port that is associated with the TCP. By implementing the TCP all data that is sent from the client of one peer must be received by the server of the peer that it is connected to which stops data from being lost or damaged while it is transmitted. Getting the IP address on linux machines was an error that was run into early on and solved by using a function that creates a socket connected to the IP of 4.2.2.1 which is a public server and then getting the address of the local computer connected to the server and closing the connection. This stopped the issue of receiving 127.0.0.1 as the IP address of linux systems. In order to form a connection between peers, sockets were threaded so the server of each peer is always listening for connections on port 1085. When a client tries to connect to this server, the server creates a new thread to handle the connection 
.SH BUGS
The video chat section of Ramp currently only works on linux systems.
.SH AUTHORS
James Lekas (jlekas@andrew.cmu.edu) Scott Hamal (shamal@andrew.cmu.edu)
